# Chapter 1 - Intro

Welcome to a grand new adventure!

## Why This Exists

<aside><p>That old work was deleted with the death of the forums I used, or
else I'd share it here.</p></aside>

Starting as a web developer can be a difficult thing. I started at twelve,
futzing around with CSS for a forum I'd made, marshaling HTML tables into
something resembling a coherent site. My knowledge was built on Google
searches, W3Schools reading, and experimentation. Most of it was bad.

By the time I started really getting into web development; really trying to
learn how to do things __right__, I was way far gone. I've spent a lot time
since then unlearning what I'd always thought was right.

<aside><p>If you're looking for good reference material, try the
<a href='/resources' title='Resources'>resources</a> page.</p></aside>

Things don't have to be that way, and in creating this field guide, it is my
hope that you learn from my mistakes. What I share here is not a complete
catalogue of all things HTML and CSS, nor it is a how-to on designing a blog or
opening an online store. The field guide exists to take you, the coder, the
hacker, the hobbyist, the reader, and make you into a real life Front End
Developer.

How does it start? Repeat after me: "I am a web developer".

"I am a web developer", "I am a web developer", "I am a web developer", "I am a
web developer".

Have you said it?

Congratulations. You're a web developer.

That's the great thing about the web, anyone can use it. But being a __good__
web developer takes more. This field guide exists to teach you the practices,
paradigms, concepts, and language that'll make you a real creator of web
experiences.

## Who It's For

<aside><p>Answer: <strong>You</strong></p></aside>

This book is for anyone and everyone interested in web development. The web is
a platform of equal opportunity, and this book is written with readers' varying
skills in mind. If you are worried about not knowing enough, or not being ready,
don't worry.

This book is also for more experienced developers looking to brush up or grow
their knowledge. If you are a more advanced developer you may want to try the
advanced topics or peruse the [resources](/resources) section.

## Paradigm Agnosticism

<aside><p>The title says it all.</p></aside>

At various points in this book I will make reference to or discuss varying
paradigms for web development. At no point should this be considered an
endorsement of a given paradigm. It is my firm belief that the best paradigm is
the one that works best for you. What I may find preferable may be bad for you,
your project, or your team, and so paradigms should never be dictated by dogma.

## Final Welcome

With all that out of the way, prepare to enter the wilds of web development.
Bring your paper, your pencil, and be ready to learn. This book may move
quickly at times, but never feel pressured to move quicker than you're ready
for. If something isn't clear [email me](/author), I am always happy to help.

